# Space Invaders Using FFT

## ABOUT 
The movement of my space invaders game is directly linked to the sound generated by the Web Audio API. The way the audio controls the grid of invaders is a nod to how the original pacing of the game was so integrated with the available resources. Eliminating aliens from the original game allowed for more available resources which meant the game play could move faster. 


https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6880c920-a88c-49e0-aa19-70f8ef609570


## Gameplay
An audio signal controls the alien ships and an audio signal controls the player. Frequencies generated from the alien audio signal indicate the markers where each alien ship is placed. If a frequency in the alien audio signal is removed so is the alien ship at that location. The left and right arrow buttons control the player's audio signal. Pressing the arrows shifts the player's audio frequency higher or lower, which moves the peak left and right on the board.


## Mechanics
This makes 2 analog signals using web audio API.

1 signal controls the invaders  
1 signal controls the player

5 rows of invaders (11 invaders per row) = 55 invaders total move left to right across our game board  
each invader is assigned a frequency evenly spaced between 2000 and 22000mhz  
fft analysis is used to detect peaks in the signal
when a peak is detected, the corresponding invader is drawn on screen.

The player is controlled by a single frequency that moves up and down the frequency spectrum. <br/> 
FFT analysis is used to detect the peak in the signal
The signal's peak indicates the player's position on screen. <br/>
Right and left arrows or h and l keys increase and decrease the frequency, which moves the player left and right on screen 

## Debugger
a **debugger** is available by pressing the d key
the debugger shows a grid representing the game board to test hitting specific invaders
the debugger also shows the frequency and bin number for each invader and the player
